---
title: Ben’s ’87 GTI
date: 2019-09-19T15:04:15.000+00:00
intro: A superb build with countless mods and mad atention to detail.
image_path: stories/bens-87-gti
categories:
- Golf
layout: story

---
My name is Ben Hobson and I’m from Wichita, KS, USA.

I own a 1987 Volkswagen Golf GTI known as the Greenbean. I bought this car while in my freshman year of high school and I’ve now had it for 20 years.

{% include story/image.html
src="intro.jpg"
caption="Picture by Emilio Rocha"
%}

![](/assets/images/uploads/bens-87-gti-intro.jpg)

You have to realize that the car you see today isn’t anything close to the car I started with back in 1998 – When I bought this mk2, it had no bumpers, small doors, the grill was missing and dinged up pretty good. Thankfully I kept with the project and met some great friends along the way to help out.

#### Starting from the exterior

The Greenbean is sprayed with a custom Sikkens green and was actually painted 14 years ago by my good friend Brad Umscheid at Paints Unlimited.

{% include story/image.html
src="exterior-1.jpg"
caption="Picture by @loweredvision"
%}

Due to it being built so long ago, it has that Max Power late 90’s vibe to it. You can can spot that with a few details like the motorcycle gas cap, the Audi 80 handles, Happich pop-out windows, an extremely rare Astra Hammond louvre, and the half shaved bay.

{% include story/image.html
src="exterior-2.jpg"
%}

{% include story/image.html
src="exterior-3.jpg"
%}

{% include story/image.html
src="exterior-4.jpg"
%}

{% include story/image.html
src="exterior-5.jpg"
caption="Pictures by Emilio Rocha"
%}

To finish off the car is equipped with a full Air Lift air ride system, custom fiberglass G60+ fender flares and a fully polished set of 16×9″ and 16×10″ BBS RS.

{% include story/image.html
src="exterior-6.jpg"
%}

{% include story/image.html
src="exterior-7.jpg"
caption="Pictures by Emilio Rocha"
%}

#### Let’s talk about the engine

It originally came with a 1.8L 16v and I drove it daily for 7 years.

I wanted to keep that old school 16v setup, so I had Kevin at Antaki Motorworks throw in an OBD1 ABA 2.0L, with the same P&P 1.8L head, a Garrett T3 60-trim turbo, OBD2 motronic management and a United Motorsports tune.

{% include story/image.html
src="engine-1.jpg"
%}

{% include story/image.html
src="engine-2.jpg"
caption="Pictures by Emilio Rocha"
%}

Nothing wild, but it puts down 318whp and is fun to rip around town.

To complete the bay, I have hand polished about every piece of the motor that is either visible, or I can get a buffing wheel on.

{% include story/image.html
src="engine-3.jpg"
caption="Picture by Emilio Rocha"
%}

#### Inside the car

Since I built this in the late 90’s, it has, of course, a mk3 dash swap with an arsenal of gauges, as that was the trend back in the days.

{% include story/image.html
src="inside-1.jpg"
%}

{% include story/image.html
src="inside-2.jpg"
%}

{% include story/image.html
src="inside-3.jpg"
caption="Pictures by Emilio Rocha"
%}

To hold me in place and to keep me safe, I’ve kept a set of TM Tuning RSD leather racing seats, Schroth harnesses and a fully polished Wiechers roll cage/harness bar.

{% include story/image.html
src="inside-4.jpg"
%}

{% include story/image.html
src="inside-5.jpg"
caption="Pictures by Emilio Rocha"
%}

I built a full false floor to keep the interior clean and to hide the air tank, air management, the battery, a 12″ subwoofer and multiple amps. It also has several compartments to store cleaning products or tools.

{% include story/image.html
src="inside-6.jpg"
caption="Picture by Emilio Rocha"
%}

Although it may have a competition stereo in it, most of the time the drone of the 16v is enough music to my ears.

#### To wrap things up

Every year I say I’m done with the car and I’m not adding anything else to it.

{% include story/image.html
src="conclusion-1.jpg"
%}

{% include story/image.html
src="conclusion-2.jpg"
caption="Pictures by Emilio Rocha"
%}

Well as of late, I fabricated an all-aluminum top hatch mount gurney wing. It’s completely adjustable and comes complete with a multi-functional LED strip that does running lights, brake lights, yellow scrolling turn signals and hyper white reverse lights. It’s a little obnoxious for the mk2 crowd, but it fits the DTM look of my car, is extremely well made and hopefully I can sell a few to some track cars or show guys.